# 2016 Write-Up

## Abstract

To not repeat myself in the write-ups, please refer to the [README.md](https://github.com/belkinsa/GrailvilleWetlands/blob/master/README.md) of the repo for the introduction, methods, and materials.

## Analysis

Analysis will start from [June of 2016](https://github.com/belkinsa/GrailvilleWetlands/blob/master/notes/timeline.md#2016), as I did not collect data and notes. 

### Big Pond

In the beginning of my data collection, I noted that Ammonia was at 0.25 parts per millon (ppm) seven (7) weeks with two weeks of 0.5 ppm in between the weeks of the 0.25 ppm levels. The pH levels stayed around 7 with two (2) weeks of 7.5 and a week of 8. Luckly the Nitrite and Phoshate levels stayed at zero (0) ppm.

### Small Pond

In the beginning of my data collection, I noted that Ammonia was at 0.25 ppm in the small pond for eight (8) weeks. Near the end of the season, the Phoshate levels peaked at two (2) ppm but within two weeks, it went back down to zero (0). The pH levels ranged from 6 to 7.5, mostly the 7 to 7.5 range with a week of 6 and two (2) with 6.5. Luckly the Nitrite levels stayed at zero (0) ppm.


## Conclusions

### Big Pond

The reason why the Ammonia stayed at 0.25 ppm then dropped is because (as noted in the [timeline](https://github.com/belkinsa/GrailvilleWetlands/blob/master/notes/timeline.md#august-1)) the cattle nearby the pond were moved futher away from it.

### Small Pond

I have no explaination to the Ammonia levels in the small pond in the summer months of June and July and the first week of Auguest. But for the rest of the data collection, there might be a correlation with weather because it rained those days where there were spikes.  Same for the Phoshate levels for those two weeks. As for the pH levels, the plants that were put in could of made a difference but that is only a guess.

### Other Notes

I found out that LirbeOffice handles .csv files better than Microsoft Office. I also did not think on how to format when I started to data collect the .csv file in terms of formating the date as a three colum seprated entry instead of a simple mm-dd-yy format. If I did the date in the correct format, I would of had charts to show, either from LibreOffice or from R. Because of this, there are no charts for this write-up. Plus, most of the deviations from 7 pH and zero (0) ppm respectfully of the values measured will show correlation with weather, mostly when it rains, and other factors, like the cattle being moved away from the big pond.

Due to me getting a new job just as the data collection season ended and then a bad case of winter blues, I did not get to do that much research on solutions. Because of this, I think I will collect data for the first half of the season and work on figuring out what plants could be placed in the small pond (the big one will be untouched).
